h1. BasePHP

h2. Overview

BasePHP is a small, general PHP class library. It's written to take advantage of the new features offered by PHP 5.3 which, given my current work-rate, will probably be in wide-use by the time this library is complete.

Main features:

* Object oriented database access with support for:
* * lazy connection via instance registry
* * smart(er) automatic value quoting
* * exception wrapping for catching constraint violations
* * automatic conversion/instantiation of boolean/date types
* * emulated nested transactions and queued filesystem operations
* Class/method annotation using JSON fragments
* Date classes
* Powerful "rewire" feature which automatically creates wrapper objects for file uploads (coming soon: date and currency)
* Image class supporting chainable operations, resizing, cropping and filtering
* Active-record style model class with reflection-based plugin mechanism

BasePHP makes heavy use of __autoload() - if you don't like this, this library isn't for you.

h2. Installation

Very simple, just copy the contents of the "inc" directory into your include root. You'll probably want to add a couple of lines to your master include file to make your life easier - just check out 'configure.php' for details.

BasePHP currently includes no files intended for deployment to the webroot (stylesheets, scripts, images etc.). This may change in a future version if I start adding support for JavaScript libraries. Don't hold your breath, however.

h2. Running Tests

You can run the tests directly from the shell. For example:

  jason@ratchet ~ $ cd $BASE_PHP_ROOT
  jason@ratchet base $ php run_tests.php

h2. Feedback and Contributions

To report bugs, email me at jason@onehackoranother.com
If you'd like to contribute, drop me a line at the same address, or fork the project and send a pull request.
